---
title: Epics, User Stories and Tasks
---

#### Follow me on Linkedin if you like provoking posts about software development. [Let's socialize!](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexsandro-souza-dev/detail/recent-activity/shares/)

With another Sprint Planning, the problem returns: how can I help the team organise the work efficiently? Below you can find a quick guide to help create Epics, User Stories and Tasks

## Epic

An epic captures a large body of work. It is essentially a large user story that can be broken down into a number of smaller stories. It may take several sprints to complete an epic.

In practice, epics should represent features which will be delivered by an initiative

## User Story

A convenient format for expressing the desired business value. Story is a kind of work that directly affects the end-user experience

They can be written at various levels of granularity and should be easy to progressively refine.

### How to create?
User Stories employ the model: "As a (persona) I want to (do something) so that I can (make something else possible)."

Ex: "As the birthday guy, I want to invite my friends, so we can enjoy this party together."

### Who writes user stories?
Typically initiated by the PO, further refined by the team

When written by others, the PO is still accountable for the story.

## Tasks
Tasks are simple imperative statements that declare what must be done, and often form the component parts of user stories.

Think of a task in scrum as a business requirement that’s not user focused and no longer involves the end user.

That’s the distinction: You usually know when you’ve broken down beyond a user story to its smallest pieces when you run out of personas and are left with just business level requirements.

### How to create?

The model for task writing is: (Action) the (Result) by/for/of/to and (Object).

Ex: "Generate a unique identifier for a transaction"

### Who writes Tasks?
Task is a kind of work that is purely technical, therefore tech people should write it.

## Conclusion
Not everything in your backlog has to be a user story. It can be a task too.


Referencies:
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/scrum-basics-whats-difference-between-user-story-task-edward-emerson/
